---
layout: page
title: Thomas Colligan
subtitle: MSc candidate // Computer Science // University of Montana
use-site-title: true
bigimg:
  - "/img/jumbo_elk.png": "Elk on Mount Jumbo"
---
## About
Graduate student in computer science at the University of Montana. Advised by
[Douglas Brinkerhoff](https://dbrinkerhoff.org). My masters' thesis involves
mapping irrigation across the CONUS using LANDSAT data and neural networks.
Pursuing computer science was a bit of a pivot for me, as I received an
undergraduate degree in physics. My undergraduate physics research involved
trying to characterize the atmosphere's response to total solar eclipses. There
are many transient effects that solar eclipses have on the atmosphere, but I was
particularly interested in how internal gravity waves are generated by eclipses
in the lower atmosphere. This work on eclipse waves led to the opportunity to
measure the atmosphere's response to the total solar eclipse of July 2, 2019 in
Chile, as well as the August 21, 2017 eclipse over North America. In between
bouts as a gravity wave scientist and satellite computer vision researcher, I've
worked for [AASO](https://umt.edu/aaso/) as a programmer. I'm particularly
interested in coming up with ways to leverage the vast amounts of freely
available satellite data to pretrain machine learning models in an unsupervised
fashion.


This website serves as a helpful place to share my research notes.
Occasionally I'll post things about general projects I'm working on.

****

[CV]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/cv.pdf)


[Resume]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/cv.pdf)

### Contact me

[email](mailto:thomas.colligan@umontana.edu)
