---
layout: post
published: true
updated: Tue April 21, 2020
img: /assets/post-images/starry.jpg
---
Wed Apr 1 09:20:46 MDT 2020

- [x] Make sure data is properly registered. I visually inspected all of the path/rows over Montana and they all look perfectly registered.
- [x] Re-extract training data, removing all tiles where there are any 0 values (this corresponds to
  the edge of a path/row, and some LANDSAT tiles have different extent for the same path row.)
  Doing this seems to have increased validation accuracy and possibly f1 score. I didn't notice this
  issue until I manually examined all of the data by hand.

- [ ] Randomly sample the bands that I feed into the model to better approximate
  the differences in sampling dates

- [ ] Run some analysis to figure out the strength of spatial autocorrelation in LANDSAT data (this
  would have applications in how to truly divide test/train/validation shapefiles for data analysis).

- [ ] Download and incorporate thermal bands into model.

- [x] Investigate why the 1m param network (described [here]({% post_url 2020-03-31-model-comparison-table %})) did better than networks with way more parameters. Probably because the larger networks are way overparameterized and overfit.

- [x] Train models with random start dates as described [here]({% post_url 2020-03-31-data-description %}) 

- [x] Add more data: use all 7 bands available for surface reflectance data.

- [ ] Evaluate out-of-time-domain accuracy.

- [x] Experiment with training networks with tiles taken over the centroids of irrigated polygons.
  Done. This definitely increases the performance of the networks on the test set.

- [ ] Weight orthogonality?

- [ ] Cycle-gan to pretrain the network. Pretrain the network on labels generated by another GAN (or VAE), to get realistic labels that aren't part of the training corpus.

- [ ] Train a network (to use as pretrained) to predict the mean image of its inputs. This may be
easier than training it to predict the next image.

- [ ] Use some ideas from NLP to train a transformer network 

{: style='list-style-type: none'}
